
Tomatoes
Climate: Tomatoes need warmth; plant in late spring and early summer for most breeds
Sunlight: Tomates need at least 6-8 hours of sun to bring out their best flavors, so devote a prime sunny spot to them
Support: Cages, Stakes, Trellis
Spacing: Give each individual plant room to grow. Long-vined species need to be placed about 3ft apart, stockier species can be placed 2ft apart.
Water: Water regularly
Special: Recommend burying two-thirds of the stem when planting (note method of deep planting only works with tomatoes)

Bell Peppers
Climate: Peppers need at least 70oF for germination, and 65oF for successful transplanting.
Sunlight: Peppers are heat sensitive especially in desert climates. Different species require differing amounts of sunlight
Support: Cages, Stakes
Spacing: Transplant seedlings outdoors, 18 to 24 inches apart (but keep paired plants close to touching)
Water: Water regularly
Special: Start pepper seeds three to a pot, and thin out the weakest seedling. Let the remaining two pepper plants spend their entire lives together as one plant. The leaves of two plants help protect peppers against sunscald and the yield is often twice as good as two segregated plants.

Broccoli
Climate: Broccoli is a cool-season crop that, like spinach, can be grown in the spring or fall. Broccoli can germinate in soil with temperatures as low as 40°F.
Sunlight: Best exposed to full sun
Support: No requirements
Spacing: Within a row, space your plants 12 to 24 inches apart with 36 inches between each row.
Water: Water frequently, keep up moisture but do not wet head.
Special: Do not get developing heads wet when watering. Roots are very shallow, do not cultivate. Use mulch to keep soil temperature low.

Peas
Climate: Different breeds are better grown depending on the season, but spring is a good time to start. Can tolerate light frost, but grows best in moderate warm termperatures.
Sunlight: Different breeds require different amounts of sunlight, some are more heat tolerate that others
Support: Trellis, Pea Brush
Spacing: Sow seeds closely together in rows
Water: Water intensively once a week
Special: To get peas in the ground and germinating as early as possible in the spring, plant them in raised beds. The raised beds warm up faster than the surrounding ground.

Radishes
Climate: There are two main types of radishes, spring radishes and winter radishes. Avoid warm weather, radishes do not thrive above 65°F.
Sunlight: Pick a spot that gets at least 6 hours of direct sunlight per day.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: No requirements
Water: Water moderately. If the soil is too dry, radishes will bolt and become pithy and too pungent to eat. If too wet, the roots will split and rot. Never let the soil dry out, but don't keep it mucky, either.
Special: Prepare a light, well-drained soil with a pH of 5.8 to 6.8 for best production. When preparing the soil, avoid fresh manure and organic materials or fertilizers high in nitrogen.

Beans
Climate: In general, beans are very sensitive to frost. Most beans grow best in air temperatures of 70°F to 80°F, and soil temperature should be at least 60°F.
Sunlight: Beans need a sunny, well-drained area rich in organic matter.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: Plant most bush cultivars 3 to 6 inches apart in rows 2 to 2½ feet apart.
Water: Water intensively once a week
Special: Beans generally don't need extra nitrogen for good growth because the beneficial bacteria that live in nodules on bean roots help to provide nitrogen for the plants. To speed up growth, give beans—particularly long-bearing pole beans or heavy-feeding limas—a midseason side-dressing of compost or kelp extract solution.

Brussel Sprouts
Climate: Growing Brussels sprouts requires cool weather. The ideal climate is the “fog belt” of the Pacific Northwest, but they will grow in just about any part of the country.
Sunlight: Brussels sprouts need a minimum of 6 hours of sunlight daily; more is better.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: Brussels sprouts get large, so they need to be about 18 to 24 inches apart in a row or bed. If planted in rows, space rows 30 inches apart to give yourself enough room to walk.
Water: Water regularly
Special: Brussels sprouts also need more boron than most other vegetables. If your brussels sprouts develop hollow stems and small buds, you can add boron to the soil by dissolving 1 level tablespoon of borax in 5 quarts of water and sprinkling it evenly over 50 square feet of bed. DO NOT be tempted to mix more, and do not apply unless your plants have shown the deficiency symptoms we just mentioned.

Beets
Climate: Beets like cool weather. In northern soils, beets shouldn’t be planted until the temperature of the soil is at least 40°F.
Sunlight: Like most vegetables, beets prefer growing in full sun.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: When growing beets, plant the seeds 1 to 2 inches apart in the row.
Water: Water regularly
Special: You can plant beets in partial shade, but when growing beets, you want their roots to reach a depth of at least 3-6 inches, so don’t plant them under a tree where they might run into tree roots.

Herbs (Cilantro, Basil, Thyme, Rosemary, Mint, Chives)
Climate: Recommended planting and growing these indoors. Seeds should be sowed indoors, but after 5-10 weeks seedlings will be ready to move outside.
Sunlight: Herbs need at least 6 hours of bright sunlight. Many require 6-8 hours of sun each day to produce the essential oils that give them their pleasant taste and scent.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: No requirements
Water: Water enough to keep the soil moist, but not soggy and avoid frequent light waterings which can draw roots to the soil surface. Certain species need extra moist soil, while others need less moist soil, so water accordingly.
Special:

Carrots
Climate: Start sowing this cool-weather crop 3 weeks before the last expected frost; plant again every 2 to 3 weeks after that.
Sunlight: Carrot tops need full sun to light shade, for the carrots to grow quickly and develop their sugars.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: Thin to 1 inch apart when the tops are 2 inches high, and be thorough, because crowded carrots will produce crooked roots. Thin again 2 weeks later to 3 to 4 inches apart.
Water: Water gently
Special: To produce the best crop possible, double-dig your planting area or build up a raised bed.

Leafy Greens (Lettuce, Spinach, Kale)
Climate: Succulents like about 70-80°F degrees in summer months and 50-60°F in winter months.
Sunlight: All do well in containers and full sun, but during summer heat some less sun tolerant species need shade from afternoon sun.
Support: No requirements
Spacing: Plant small, 2-to-4-foot patches of greens every 2 weeks throughout the growing season.
Water: Supply your plant with a large amount of water about once a week
Special: When planting an outdoor garden, choose your succulents and accompanying plants carefully. Succulents prefer lots of sunshine, dry soil, and little watering. If this doesn’t fit the surrounding flora, consider using your succulents as houseplants or moving them to a separate location.

Melons (Watermelon, Cantaloupe, Honeydew)
Climate: Watermelon, cantaloupe, honeydew and other melons are heat-loving plants that won't tolerate frost or cold.
Sunlight: No specific requirements
Support: When growing melons in raised beds, use trellis to save space.
Spacing: When growing melons in raised beds, use trellis to save space.
Water: Water moderately and consistantly
Special: Toward the end of the growing season, pinch off any small melons so the larger melons will ripen and sweeten up.

Berries (Strawberries, Blueberries, Blackberries, Raspberries)
Climate:
Sunlight:
Support:
Spacing:
Water:
Special:

Lemons
Climate:
Sunlight:
Support:
Spacing:
Water:
Special:

